.TH lctl-set_param 8 "2016 Feb 8" Lustre "configuration utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl set_param - Set the value of Lustre or LNET parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lctl set_param 
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-n ] 
.RB [ \-p ] 
.RB [ \-P ]
.RI < parameter = value ...>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lctl set_param
sets all Lustre or LNET parameters matching the given parameter wildcard(s) to
the corresponding value(s).
Multiple
.IR parameter = value
options can be supplied at once.
The components of a parameter name must be separated by a '.'.
Parameter names can contain any shell pattern matching wildcards, including the
following:
.TP
.B *
Match any number of characters.
.TP
.B ?
Match a single character.
.TP
.RB { a1 , a2 }
Match \fBa1\fR or \fBa2\fR.
.TP
.RB [ chars ]
Match any of the characters in \fBchars\fR, where \fBchars\fR may contain a
\fB\-\fR to indicate a range of characters.
.TP
.RB [ low - high ]
Match any of the characters in the range from \fBlow\fR to \fBhigh\fR.
.PP
The parameter wildcards will not match across parameter components.
For example, the parameter wildcard \fBld*spaces\fR will not match the parameter
\fBldlm.namespaces\fR.
However, the parameter wildcard \fBld*.*spaces\fR would match.
If the parameter contains wildcards, it should be quoted to avoid expansion by
the shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Remove the permanent setting (only with -P option)
.TP
.B \-n
Disable printing of the key name when printing values.
.TP
.B \-p
If setting multiple parameters at once, spawn threads and set all parameters in
parallel.
Without this option, the parameters will be set serially.
If this option is supplied and lctl was compiled without pthread support, a
warning message will be printed, and the set_param will proceed serially.
.TP
.B \-P
Set the parameter permanently, filesystem-wide.
These parameters are only visible to 2.5.0 and later clients; older clients will
not see these parameters.
.SH EXAMPLES
Set the \fBfail_loc\fR parameter to \fB0\fR and set the \fBtimeout\fR parameter
to \fB20\fR.
.PP
.nf
.RS
.B
# lctl set_param fail_loc=0 timeout=20
fail_loc=0
timeout=20
.RE
.fi
.PP
Do the same as above, but print only the new values of the parameters, not the
names of the parameters.
.PP
.nf
.RS
.B
# lctl set_param -n fail_loc=0 timeout=20
0
20
.RE
.fi
.PP
Set all parameters matching the wildcard \fBosc.*.max_dirty_mb\fR to the value
\fB32\fR.
.PP
.nf
.RS
.B
# lctl set_param -P "osc.*.max_dirty_mb=32"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Set all parameters matching the wildcard \fBldlm.namespaces.*osc*.lru_size\fR to
the value \fBclear\fR, and do so in parallel.
.PP
.nf
.RS
.B
# lctl set_param -p "ldlm.namespaces.*osc*.lru_size=clear"
ldlm.namespaces.fsname-OST0001-osc-MDT0000.lru_size=clear
ldlm.namespaces.fsname-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.lru_size=clear
.RE
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lustre (7)
