.TH lfs-setdirstripe 1 "2014 June 8" Lustre "Create striped directory"
.SH NAME
lfs setdirstripe, mkdir \- used to set striping pattern of a directory.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lfs setdirstripe <--count|-c stripe_count>
\fB [--index|-i mdt_index] [--hash-type|-t hash_type]
\fB [--default_stripe|-D ] [--mode|-m mode] <dir>
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a striped directory with specified striping pattern.
.B lfs mkdir
is an alias for this command.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-count= COUNT
Stripe over COUNT MDTs.
.TP
.BI \-\-index= START_MDT_INDEX
Stripe from the MDT, whose index is START_MDT_INDEX.
.TP
.BI \-\-hash-type= HASH_TYPE
is the hash_type of the striped directory.
.RS 1.2i
.TP
.B fnv_1a_64
Fowler-Noll-Vo (FNV-1a) hash algorithm.  This provides
reasonably uniform, but not cryptographically strong,
hashing of the filename. (default)
.TP
.B all_char
Sum of ASCII characters modulo number of MDTs. This
provides weak hashing of the filename, and is suitable
for only testing or when the input is known to have
perfectly uniform distribution (e.g. sequential numbers).
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-default_stripe
Set the default striping pattern of the directory. Newly created
sub-directories will use the new default striping pattern,
but existing sub-directories will not be affected.  The newly
created sub-directories will also inherit the current default
striping pattern. Only default stripe count is supported for now.
.BI \-\-mode= MODE
Set the file access mode of the new directory to the specified
numeric value (typically octal) as specified in
.BR chmod (1),
and is not affected by the current
.BR umask (1p).
.SH NOTE
.PP
The "lfs setdirstripe" command is only executable by root unless
"mdt.*.enable_remote_dir_gid" is set via "lctl set_param" to be either a
non-zero GID to limit it to a single group (e.g. "operator" or "admin"),
or "-1" to allow any group to create remote directories.

The root of the file system is on MDT0000, and directories and files inherit the
MDT of their parent directory unless a different MDT is specified with this
command.

By default, only directories on MDT0000 can contain directories that are not on
the same MDT.  However, if "mdt.*.enable_remote_dir" is set non-zero on an MDT
then it will allow creating remote directories that have parents other than
MDT0000. This is restricted to avoid creating directory trees that have
intermediate path components on a series different MDTs and become unavailable
if any of the intermediate MDTs are offline.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B $ lfs setdirstripe -c 2 -i 1 -t all_char /mnt/lustre/dir1
This creates a directory striped on two MDTs, whose first stripe is on
.B MDT0001
(MDT index 1), and whose hash type is
.BR all_char .
.SH BUGS
Default stripe cannot be deleted once it is set.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The lfs setdirstripe command is part of the Lustre filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lfs-getdirstripe (1),
.BR lustre (7)
