.TH lfs-getdirstripe 1 "2014 June 8" Lustre "get striping pattern of a directory"
.SH NAME
lfs getdirstripe \- used to get striping pattern of a directory.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lfs getdirstripe [--obd|-O <uuid>] [--quiet|-q] [--verbose|-v]
        \fB [--stripe-count|-c ] [--stripe-index|-i]
        \fB [--recursive|-r] [--raw|-R] <dirname> ...\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B lfs getdirstripe [OPTIONS] <dir>
List the directory striping information of a given directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --stripe-count
Only show the stripe count of the directory.
.TP
.BR --stripe-index
Only show the stripe index of the directory.
.TP
.BR --raw
The striping information is printed without substituting the
filesystem's default values for unspecified fields. If the striping EA is not
set, 0, and -1 will be printed for the stripe count, and offset respectively.
.TP
.BR --quiet
Only show the details of the sub-striped directory object id information.
.TP
.BR --verbose
Additional information will be shown with this option.
.TP
.BR --recursive
The default behavior when a directory is specified is to list the striping
information for all sub-directories within the specified directory (like
.RB ' "ls -l" ') . This can be expanded with --recursive, which will recurse
into all subdirectories.
.TP
.BR --obd=MDT_UUID
Limit the returned directories to those with objects on a specific MDT,
whose uuid is MDT_UUID.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B $ lfs getdirstripe -O lustre-MDT0001_UUID -r /mnt/lustre/dir1
List the striping information of sub-directories, who is located on MDT1,
under /mnt/lustre/dir1.
.SH AUTHOR
The lfs getdirstripe command is part of the Lustre filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lustre (7)
